File        : contacts.txt
Date        : 16-May-98
Author      : Â© A.Thoukydides, 1996-1998, 2019
Description : Useful contact information relevant to ARMEdit.
    
License     : ARMEdit is free software: you can redistribute it and/or
              modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
              as published by the Free Software Foundation, either
              version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
              version.

              ARMEdit is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
              but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
              of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See
              the GNU General Public License for more details.

              You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
              License along with ARMEdit. If not, see
              <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


INTRODUCTION

This file gives contact information relevant to ARMEdit. Please note that no
responsibility is taken for the accuracy of details listed here; particulars
may change without notice.


CONTACTING THE AUTHOR

I would be interested in hearing of any bugs or other unexpected features in
this suite of software, and will endeavour to correct any such problems in
future releases. Suggestions for improvements are also most welcome.
Implementation depends upon practicability and on how much spare time I have.

If you have any comments on ARMEdit, or would like to suggest ways in which
it could be improved, I can be contacted at one of the following addresses:
    
    Thalna
    2 Dukes Drive
    Bearwood
    Bournemouth
    Dorset
    BH11 9SZ
    
    armedit@thouky.tcp.co.uk

If in any communication you make specific reference to the program code
please:

    Quote the version number and date of the ARMEdit module, the component
    concerned, and the PC front-end software being used.
    
    Refer only to the software as released.
    
    Supply as many details as possible about the problem, including the
    hardware and software configuration of the machine being used.

Please send a stamped and self addressed envelope, or give details of how to
contact via e-mail, if you would like a reply.


ARMEDIT MAILING LIST

Two mailing lists have been created for announcements and discussions
concerning ARMEdit. These are:

    armedit-announce    A moderated list for announcements of new beta-test
                        or release versions.

    armedit-chat        An unmoderated list for discussion of all aspects of
                        ARMEdit, including:
                        
                            Problems with the software, e.g. bugs or
                            interaction with other software.
                            
                            Ideas for improvements, or new applications of
                            existing tools.
                            
                            Third party software being developed using the
                            support included in ARMEdit.

To join or remove yourself from either list email majordomo@thouky.tcp.co.uk
with one of the following commands in the message body:

    help                Obtain a summary of the supported commands.
    
    info <list>         Retrieve a description of the named list, where <list>
                        should be either armedit-announce or armedit-chat.   
    
    list                List all the current mailing lists on the server,
                        whether they are moderated or closed, and whether
                        they are secure.

    subscribe <list>    Subscribe to the named list, where <list> should
                        again be either armedit-announce or armedit-chat.
                        
    unsubscribe <list>  Unsubscribe from the named list, where <list> should
                        again be either armedit-announce or armedit-chat.
    
    which               List all the mailing lists subscribed to which you
                        are currently subscribed.

Please note that the commands must be place in the body of the message, not
the subject.


ARMEDIT UPGRADES

A WWW page giving information about the current version of ARMEdit, links to
copies available for download, and details of future developments, exists at:

    http://homepages.tcp.co.uk/~thouky/tcfa.html

Upgrades will normally be available from:

    ftp://tailor.linc.ox.ac.uk/pub/alex/


TOOLBOX MODULES

The !ARMEdit front-end requires copies of the Acorn Toolbox modules. These
are already present in RISC OS 3.6 and above, but must be placed in the
!System directory on older machines. A copy may be downloaded from one of the
following locations:

    ftp://tailor.linc.ox.ac.uk/pub/alex/toolbox.arc
    ftp://ftp.aleph1.co.uk/aleph1/toolbox.arc


PC CARD SOFTWARE UPGRADES

At the time of writing, the latest available release version of the software
for second processor cards is PCPro 2v03. This is a free upgrade for owners
of Aleph One cards, but is available for Acorn PC card owners to buy; contact
Aleph One for more details:

    Aleph One Ltd
    The Old Courthouse
    High Street
    Bottisham
    Cambridge
    CB5 9BA
    
    Tel: 01223 811679
    Fax: 01223 812713

    sales@aleph1.co.uk
    http://www.aleph1.co.uk/

Free upgrades for Aleph One PC cards can be found at the Aleph One FTP site,
including a beta-release version containing many of the features of PCPro:

    ftp://ftp.aleph1.co.uk/aleph1/

Equivalent upgrades for Acorn cards can be found at the Acorn FTP site:

    ftp://ftp.acorn.co.uk/


VIRTUALISE

ARMEdit can use a lot of memory if the ARMEDIT.SYS device driver is being
used. On a RiscPC it is possible to use my virtual memory manager Virtualise,
available from Clares, to reduce the amount of RAM required:

    Clares Micro Supplies
    98 Middlewich Road
    Rudheath
    Northwich
    Cheshire
    
    Tel: 01606 48511
    Fax: 01606 48512
    
    sales@clares.demon.co.uk
    http://www.stcoll.ac.uk/clares/


WIN95FS

Warm Silence Software have produced a partial replacement for DOSFS that
provides access to files and directories via their Windows 95 long filenames.
This is a perfect complement to the support provided by ARMEDIT.SYS.

    Warm Silence Software
    P.O. Box 28
    Woodstock
    Oxfordshire
    England
    OX15 4JX

    Tel: 0585 487642
    Fax: 01608 737172

    Robin.Watts@wss.co.uk or Paul.Gardiner@wss.co.uk
    http://www.wss.co.uk/


INFO-ZIP

The UnZip utility used by the install option is part of a suite of free
compression software by Info-ZIP. The source code and other utilities may be
obtained from:

    ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/infozip/
    http://www.cdrom.com/pub/infozip/

The RISC OS port is by Sergio Monesi and Karl 'RiscMan' Davis:

    Sergio Monesi                       
    Via Trento e Trieste 30             
    20046 Biassono (MI)                 
    Italy                               

    msergio@tin.it
    http://bounce.to/sergio/
    
    Karl 'RiscMan' Davis
    PO Box B23
    Boronia Park 2111
    Australia
    
    riscman@armature.net.au
    http://www.armature.net.au/~riscman/


ZIP FAQ

David Robinson maintains a very useful web page giving guidance on using Zip
drives with PC cards. This includes a helpful section on installing both
ARMEdit and a Zip drive on the same system. It may be accessed at:

    http://www.zephryus.demon.co.uk/education/software/index.html


CATHLIBCPP

Miles Sabin has developed an implementation of the Standard C++ Library for
use with Acorn's C++ compiler. This library has been used in the !ARMEdit
front-end application. It may be obtained from:

    http://www.acorn.com/associates/caug/cathlib/
    
