File        : frontend.txt
Date        : 18-Apr-98
Author      : Â© A.Thoukydides, 1996-1998, 2019
Description : Description of the WIMP front-end "!ARMEdit" that is part of
              the ARMEdit suite.
    
License     : ARMEdit is free software: you can redistribute it and/or
              modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
              as published by the Free Software Foundation, either
              version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
              version.

              ARMEdit is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
              but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
              of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See
              the GNU General Public License for more details.

              You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
              License along with ARMEdit. If not, see
              <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


INTRODUCTION

The "!ARMEdit" front-end adds functionality to the ARMEdit suite. It is
necessary for the operation of some, but not all, of the other components,
and is used for installing files into the PC partition. The front-end
supports interactive help; use Acorn's !Help application to obtain
information about the item under the mouse pointer.

The utilities that use this front-end are:

    ARMEDIT.COM     The front-end is required to use the External Data
                    Editing Protocol.

    OSCLI.COM       The front-end is used for executing *commands in a
                    RISC OS TaskWindow.

    PUTFILE.COM     The front-end is used for the "Save as" method of
                    specifying a destination filename.


STARTING THE PROGRAM

Start the front-end by simply double-clicking SELECT on the "!ARMEdit" icon
in a directory viewer. After a short delay the application icon will appear
on the icon-bar. If no valid configuration can be found then the installer
will be automatically started.

The front-end may be loaded at any time, before or after the PC software has
been started.

If the banner window is found to be annoying, then it may be disabled by
commenting out the last line of the "!ARMEdit.!Run" file (by placing a "|"
character before the "Run" statement). Please do not distribute this software
with the banner disabled - always copy the original files.


THE ICON BAR

Clicking MENU on the icon which appears on the iconbar opens the main program
menu which offers the following options:

    Info            Moving over the sub-menu arrow displays a standard
                    program information window. The version number should be
                    the same as the version of the ARMEdit module being used.
                    Leaving the window open for 5 seconds will show some
                    other messages.

    PC card         Clicking SELECT starts the configured PC card front-end
                    software using the current PC card configuration. Moving
                    over the sub-menu arrow displays a list of named
                    configurations. Clicking SELECT on one of the
                    configurations will activate that configuration, and then
                    start the PC card software.

    Speed...        Clicking SELECT or moving over the sub-menu arrow displays
                    a dialogue box allowing the multitasking speed of the PC
                    card to be controlled.

    Relog devices   Clicking SELECT forces a relog of any ARMEDIT.SYS devices.
                    Moving over the sub-menu arrow and selecting the "Now"
                    option forces an immediate relog. These options are
                    equivalent to using the *ARMEdit_DevicesRelog command
                    without or with the "-now" switch.

    Install...      Clicking SELECT opens up a dialogue box that allows
                    extra ARMEdit components to be installed or reconfigured.

    Configure...    Clicking SELECT opens up a dialogue box that allows
                    ARMEdit to be configured.
                    
    Quit            Quits the front-end program. The module is not affected.


SPEED CONTROL WINDOW

The PC card speed control window allows the multitasking speed of the PC card
to be controlled. This provides a convenient interface to the
*ARMEdit_Polling command. The speed may be set independently for when the PC
window has got the input focus (foreground) and when it has not got the focus
(background).

When the option buttons are not selected the default speed is used. Clicking
SELECT on an option button allows the speed to be adjusted. Dragging the
sliders to the right increases the performance of the PC card at the expense
of slowing down the desktop.

Recent versions of the PC card software include options for adjusting the
multitasking speed directly; these should be used in preference to the
facilities provided by ARMEdit.


INSTALLATION WINDOW

When the "!ARMEdit" front-end is started for the first time, or when the
"Install..." option is selected from the iconbar menu without a saved
configuration, a simple installation procedure is started. This prompts for
vital information before allowing either a standard or custom installation to
be performed.

Selecting the "Install..." option after a configuration has been saved allows
a new custom installation to be performed or an existing one modified.

The installation may be aborted at any time by selecting the CANCEL option,
and restarted at a later time by reselecting the "Install..." option from the
iconbar menu. The configuration may also be changed by selecting the
"Configure..." option.


INSTALLATION WINDOW: WELCOME

The first installation window displays a welcome message and allows the
interactive help viewer to be started. The buttons at the bottom of the
window are:

    Cancel          Abort the installation without saving a configuration.
    
    Help            Start the "!Help" application to display interactive
                    help. This displays information about the item under the
                    pointed.
    
    Continue        Advance to the next stage of the installation process.


INSTALLATION WINDOW: CONFIGURATION COMPLETE

After completing the basic installation it is still necessary to copy some
files into the PC partition. The buttons at the bottom of the window are:

    Cancel          Abort the installation after saving the configuration
                    but before installing files into the PC partition.
    
    Custom          Perform a custom installation. This allows selection of
                    the components to install, as well as allowing the
                    destination directories and other options to be selected.
                    Selecting the "Install..." option from the iconbar menu
                    has the same effect.
    
    Continue        Perform a standard installation. This copies the DOS
                    utilities and device driver to
                    "C:\Drivers\3rdParty\ARMEdit" and modifies the
                    AUTOEXEC.BAT and CONFIG.SYS files as required.

The files may be installed manually by using SparkFS or Info-ZIP's UnZip
utility to decompress the archives stored in the "!ARMEdit.Install"
directory:

    CodeARM         RISC OS SWI veneers to the ARMEdit SWIs.
    
    CodePC          PC header and library files allowing extra utilities to
                    be written.
    
    Device          The ARMEDIT.SYS device driver.
    
    Utilities       The DOS command line utilities.


INSTALLATION WINDOW: OPTIONS

Selecting the "Install..." menu option after a configuration file has been
saved, or clicking on the CUSTOM button allows one or more components to be
installed. The available components are:

    Command line utilities
    
                    This option copies the DOS command line utilities into
                    the PC partition. The AUTOEXEC.BAT file will also require
                    modification to add the utilities to the DOS search path.
    
    DOS device driver
    
                    This option copies the ARMEDIT.SYS device driver into the
                    PC partition. The CONFIG.SYS file will also require
                    modification to load and configure the device driver.
    
    RISC OS veneers for ARMEdit SWIs
    
                    This option allows veneers to the ARMEdit SWIs to be
                    copied to a user specified directory.
    
    PC header and library files
    
                    This option allows the PC software development header and
                    library files to be copied to a user specified directory.

There are also two buttons at the bottom of the window:

    Cancel          Abort the installation without installing any components.
    
    Install         Install the selected components. This will then prompt
                    for any require details.


CONFIGURATION WINDOW

The top area of the configuration window shows an icon for each area of
ARMEdit that may be configured. Clicking on an icon will open another window
allowing relevant options to be adjusted. The icons are:

    Front-end       Configuration options specific to the !ARMEdit front-end
                    application.
    
    Speed control   Control of the multitasking speed of the PC card.
    
    Paths           Default paths for the PC card front-end, configuration
                    utility and primary DOS partition. These are used for the
                    multiple named configurations.
    
    Configurations  Configuration of multiple named PC card configurations.

    Auto run        Specify obey files to run when the PC card is reset or
                    quit.

There are also two buttons at the bottom of the window:

    Save            Save and use the modified configuration. The changes will
                    also be used when !ARMEdit is started in the future.
    
    Cancel          Abandon any changes. If ADJUST is used then the
                    configuration window(s) are kept open, and the previously
                    saved configuration is restored.


CONFIGURATION WINDOW: FRONT-END

A single option is supported for configuring the !ARMEdit front-end:

    Quit with PC software
    
                    Selecting this option will result in the front-end
                    quitting at the same time as the PC software. This is
                    useful if the application is started automatically when
                    the PC software is run.


CONFIGURATION WINDOW: SPEED CONTROL

The default multitasking speed of the PC card can be set in this window.

    Foreground      This is the setting to use when the PC card has the input
                    focus.
    
    Background      This is the setting to use when the PC card has not got
                    the input focus.

Clicking on the READ CURRENT icon will set the icons from the currently
active speed. This can be useful if the main speed control option has been
used to set the required speed.

These options should be left disabled when used with a version of the PC card
software that provides mode direct control over the multitasking speed.


CONFIGURATION WINDOW: PATHS

This window allows the default application paths to be specified. The
writable fields may be typed into directly, or alternatively the relevant
icon may be dragged from a filer window and dropped in the appropriate place.
The required paths are:

    PC card front-end software
    
                    This is the PC card front-end software, e.g. !PC, !PCx86
                    or !PC486.
    
    Configuration tool software
    
                    This is the associated application used to edit the PC
                    card configuration, e.g. !PCconfig.
    
    Primary partition or direct SCSI
    
                    This is the main PC partition. If a direct SCSI DOS
                    device is being used then the path of the root directory
                    should be typed, e.g. "SCSI::4.$". Direct SCSI DOS
                    devices are only supported if they can be accessed via
                    DOSFS or Win95FS.


CONFIGURATION WINDOW: CONFIGURATIONS

The multiple PC card configurations offered by the main !ARMEdit menu can be
viewed or configured using this window. The top section of the window
contains a single option:

    Include DOS files
    
                    Selecting this option causes CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT
                    to be automatically included with copies of the
                    "Current configuration".

The main area of the window allows the actual configurations to be edited.
At the top is a writable icon giving the name of the selected configuration.
The name of any configuration (other than the "Current configuration") may be
changed by simply typing a new name into the icon.

Clicking SELECT on the popup button to the right of the configuration name,
or MENU anywhere in the window, opens a menu giving a couple of options and
a list of the defined configurations. The options are:

    Copy            Create a copy of the selected configuration. The copy is
                    as exact duplicate of the existing configuration, except
                    when the "Current configuration" is selected. When the
                    current configuration is copied it is given the name
                    "New configuration" and the "Include DOS files" option
                    is used.
    
    Delete          Delete the selected configuration. The current
                    configuration cannot be deleted.

Clicking on one of the configuration names selects that configuration for
editing.

Below the configuration name some icons are shown. Clicking on an icon will
either perform an action or open another window allowing aspects of the
configuration to be edited. The icons are:

    Config utility  Clicking on this icon will start the PC card configuration
                    tool to edit the selected configuration. The application
                    to use may be changed in either the global or
                    configuration specific paths option.
    
    Text editor     Clicking on this icon loads the selected configuration
                    into a text editor. This uses the External Data Editing
                    Protocol, so !Edit is not supported. Use this to include
                    non-standard options in the configuration.
    
    Paths           Open a window allowing the paths specific to this
                    application to be changed.
    
    DOS files       Open a window listing the DOS files associated with the
                    selected configuration. This allows the list to be
                    changed, and for the copies of the files to be updated.

CONFIGURATION WINDOW: CONFIGURATIONS - PATHS

This window allows the application paths associated with a configuration to
be specified. This is similar to the default paths window; the main
difference being that the window is split into two sections with associated
radio buttons:

    Use default paths

                    Selecting this option uses the default paths for this
                    configuration.
    
    Specify other   Selecting this option allows the paths to be changed for
                    this configuration.

Each configuration may have its own independent path settings.


CONFIGURATION WINDOW: CONFIGURATIONS - DOS FILES

The top half of this window lists the DOS files associated with the selected
configuration. If a file is referenced with respect to the primary partition
then the partition path is displayed in grey. Click on the name of a file to
select it.

The lower half of the window allows the details of a file to be viewed or
changed. The writable field may be typed into directly, or alternatively the
relevant icon may be dragged from a filer window and dropped on the arrow.
The "Name is relative to partition" option controls whether the primary
partition path should be prefixed to the filename.

There are two special buttons near the bottom of the window:

    Remove          Remove the selected file from the configuration.
    
    Update copies   Make new copies of the files associated with this
                    configuration. This should be used after adding any files
                    to store a copy with the configuration.

Users of Windows 95 may find it useful to include MSDOS/SYS as one of the
files that is associated with each configuration. There are several items
that can be included in the [Options] section:

    BootGUI         The default value of 1 starts Windows 95, but changing it
                    to 0 results in the command prompt being started.

    BootMenu        Set this to 1 to automatically show the startup menu,
                    normally obtained by pressing F8.

    BootWin         Specifying 1 starts Windows 95 as usual, but a value of
                    0 enables the previous operating system if present.

    BootDelay       This specifies how long, in seconds, Windows 95 waits for
                    a function key to be pressed before starting if the
                    startup menu is not displayed.

    BootMenuDelay   This is similar to BootDelay except that it applies to
                    the startup menu. This sets how long, in seconds, Windows
                    95 waits before running the highlighted menu option.

Remember to unlock the MSDOS/SYS file to allow !ARMEdit to overwrite it.

Be very careful configuring ARMEdit to replace the MSDOS/SYS file if you ever
boot to a previous version of DOS - it will result in a vital system file
being overwritten. You have been warned!


CONFIGURATION WINDOW: AUTO RUN

This window allows obey files to be specified that can be executed
automatically at various times. There are three sections to the window.

The first section "ARMEdit front-end events" relates to when the !ARMEdit
front-end is started or quit:

    After ARMEdit has been loaded
    
                    This file is run after !ARMEdit has been succesfully
                    started. It could be used to automatically start the PC
                    card front-end software, or to load any related
                    utilities.
    
    Before ARMEdit is quit
    
                    This file is run just before !ARMEdit exits. It could
                    be used to automatically quit any related utilities.

The next section "Before launching PC front-end" allows a file to be run
before the PC front-end is launched:

    Prepare for PC to start
    
                    This file is run immediately before the PC front-end
                    software is started. It could be used to initialise any
                    hardware used by the PC card, such as dismounting direct
                    SCSI DOS discs.

The final section "PC card message events" allows files to be executed when
various PC card events occur:

    PC card booting or reset
    
                    This file is run when the PC card is either booted or
                    reset. It could be used to ensure that other support
                    software, such as !PCEx is loaded.
    
    PC card front-end has quit
    
                    This file is run when the PC card front-end is quit.
                    The default file kills any PC related modules that are
                    not needed when the PC card is not being used.

The writable fields may be typed into directly, or alternatively the relevant
icon may be dragged from a filer window and dropped in the appropriate place.

Note that the obey files will only be executed when the desktop is active.
However, if the PC card is running in single-tasking mode, then one obey file
may be run when the desktop is reentered.


THINGS TO DO

The following are changes that may be made to the !ARMEdit front-end sometime
in the future.

    Handle multiple configuration as supported by newer versions of PCPro
    better. This will require a list of known versions of !PC and their paths
    to be maintained.

    Finish implementing the installer, for example modifying CONFIG.SYS and
    AUTOEXEC.BAT files. Add an option to only show the changes to the
    configuration files.
    
    Allow direct SCSI devices to be specified easier. Ideally this would set
    the paths directly from the PC card configuration files.
    
    Load a configured text editor if external edit messages returned.
    

VERSION HISTORY

0.00 (10-Sep-96)    Original development version.

0.01 (11-Sep-96)    Added ability to set cursor position of external edits.
                    "Save as" window added for PUTFILE command.

0.02 (03-Oct-96)    Icons resized to contain complete text with system font.
                    Menu closed before exiting to avoid bug in Toolbox code.
                    Unused Toolbox modules no longer loaded.
                    Added support for multiple PC card configurations.

0.03 (09-Oct-96)    Fixed SaveAs window handling for PUTFILE utility.
                    Moved configuration editor to a different executable.

0.04 (17-Oct-96)    Child tasks started indirectly to avoid Toolbox problems.

0.05 (19-Dec-96)    External edits of configuration files clear modified flags.
                    Rewritten and improved multiple configuration handling.
                    Some new sprites within configuration editor.

0.06 (24-Dec-96)    PC front-end booted before starting configuration editor.
                    Modified paths used by configurations editor before save.

0.07 (17-Jan-97)    Added menu options to force a relog of the device driver.

0.08 (05-Feb-97)    Obey files can be automatically run when PC booted or quit.

0.09 (10-Feb-97)    Corrected copyright message.

1.03 (21-Feb-97)    First official release version.

1.04 (07-Dec-97)    Supports execution of commands in TaskWindows for OSCLI.
                    Extra auto-run Obey files can be specified.
                    Configuration windows enlarged to show filenames better.
                    Updated banner displayed during loading.
                    Installer option added.
                    Longer configuration names allowed.
                    Sliders are used to adjust the speed control settings.
                    Removed option to automatically include DOS files.

1.04b (11-Dec-97)   Fixed bug that prevented the installer from working.

1.05 (??-???-??)    Corrected loading sequence for Toolbox modules.
                    Fixed quitting with external edits active.
                    Reduced memory requirements by changing libraries.
