The "ARMEdit" suite of software and documentation is supplied "as is"; no
warranty, express or implied, of the merchantability of this software or its
fitness for any particular purpose is given. In no circumstances shall the
author, or any provider or distributor of this software, be liable for any
damage, loss of profits, or any indirect or consequential loss arising out of
the use of this software or inability to use this software.

This software is FreeWare. Permission is granted for anyone to distribute it
unchanged and in its entirety, providing that no profit is made in the
process. The "ARMEdit" suite may not be distributed if modified or
incomplete; neither may it be distributed without this documentation.
However, the "Banner" application and "Ensure" utility may be used and
distributed independently providing the terms in the relevant documentation
file are complied with.

The install option uses Info-ZIP's UnZip utility to extract files from an
archive. Info-ZIP's software (Zip, UnZip and related utilities) is free and
can be obtained as source code or executables from various sources. See the
Docs.Contacts file for more details.

This software uses CathLibCPP by Miles Sabin, which is copyright Â© 1997 Miles
Sabin and contains code by the Hewlett-Packard Company:

    Copyright Â© 1994
    Hewlett-Packard Company
      
    Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software and
    its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
    that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
    copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
    documentation. Hewlett-Packard Company makes no representations about the
    suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is"
    without express or implied warranty.

To use this suite, or any part of it, as part of a system or other
application that is for sale (for however much and for whatever reasons) or
released as copyright material then the author's express permission in
writing must be obtained. The author maintains copyright on all the material
supplied, except as described above, and reserves the right to change these
conditions at any time without notice.

